here in the basement of the
archaeological department at Oxford
University there's a carbon dating
apparatus which can accurately find the
age of ancient objects natural and
man-made it's a complicated process
involving all kinds of very
sophisticated techniques but I've been
told that Thomas Higham who took the
sample from my egg has got a result you
took us tiny bit of this I know a very
small amount from back here and tell me
come on what's the answer
well our date suggests that this egg is
1,300 years old
no yes yeah say it again one 1,300 years
old and that puts you at what date about
700 600 to 700 AD and what did that
surprise you um hmm I thought it was
quite a lot younger than I thought it
would be actually I mean I say that I
did and I say that because I checked
back on all of the other eggshell dates
that we've dated from Madagascar from
the species and the youngest date that
we've ever got us is about 900 AD here
is 600 AD 800 AD and your dates are
these ones that just sit in here these
are the young so it so it's it's quite
it's quite a recent one in terms of it
is indeed so this in fact was one of the
last of the elephant right I think
within within 100 to 200 years perhaps
perhaps yes ah the tick that came out of
this was one of the last absolutely
amazing
when do you think it is I think
somewhere before the 4000 ad it was
extinct largely extinct yeah
so there we have it my egg is 1,300
years old and one of the most recent
eggs of its kind that the university has
dated
you